# Nonlinear-Systems
Understanding and application of tools for nonlinear dynamic systems

There is much controversy about the role of Chaos in heart rate variability. I will provide key references on that soon. Apparnetly methodologies are required to validate nonlinearity and determinstic nature first and then evaluate the system for chaotic parameters. I will provide more on that soon.

For now, I have installed TISEAN (https://www.pks.mpg.de/~tisean/) as an R package ('tseriesChaos'); it can be used for analyzing time seried data. I have also installed tseriesEntropy. I am assuming it supports shannon entropy calculations used by one author to discriminate three sets of patients identified in the Physionet challenge for Chaos (in 2009) - see the Athero folder for that. But it has non-zero exit status (that is, some dependency packages - rgl and ks. To install rgl, I did this: sudo apt-get install r-cran-rgl (in the terminal window of RStudio, or bash terminal window). Then I installed ks through the RStudio Tools interface. I reinstalled tseriesEntropy. It installed correctly. I have also installed a package for multiscale and multifactorial time series (TseriesMMA). I also saw mention of RDRToobox (not on the CRAN list though). I reinstalled tseries (it seems to be for financial data analysis). It installed OK this time. Could not find RTisean, developed in 2013. Apparently, it is archived, and no longer actively supported. It is still listed at cranstastic.org. I downloaded the 2006 (latest) version in tar.gz. Then used: tar -xzf for the tar.gz file. One of the sufolders has R routines. This answers the question on installing from the archive: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/24194409/how-do-i-install-a-package-that-has-been-archived-from-cran . Not done the installation part yet. The untarred version is in my Chaos folder on Ubuntu. 

I also installed the R package for cranstatic. It is a place that tracks the user tally for various R packages. Plans to provide feedback. 
