Summary of Chapter 9, "Biological Self-Regulation and Self-Organization" in "Introduction to Molecular Biophysics" by J.A. Tuszynski and M Kurzynski, CRC Press, 2003. 

The human body contains ~200 cell types, ~0.6 x 10<sup>14</sup> cells, and ~1 M protein types. It is hierarchically organized with autonomous or semiautonomous networks. The nervous system has 10<sup>9</sup> to 10<sup>10</sup> neurons, each with 1K to 10K synaptic connections, each of which contains 0.1M tubulin proteins and 100 MAP interconnections between neighboring microtubules inside axons. 

Nobel laureate Prigogne showed that physical, chemical, and some biological systems in non-thermodynamic equilibrium (due to external pumping) self-organize to reduce entropy and form dissipative structures. These are expressed with reaction-diffusion equations with external force terms. he developed the theory behind limit cycles involved in self-sustained oscillations. *Order through fluctuations* theory emerged. Another Nobel laureate Eigen later introduced the concept of *[hypercycle]( https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hypercycle_(chemistry))* organization of self-replicating molecules connected in a cyclic, autocatalytic manner. it explained how life on Earth could have begun using only relatively short genetic sequences, which in theory were too short to store all essential information. 1980s saw the evolution of deterministic Chaos - a deterministic process characterized by extreme sensitivity to initial conditions. **Cellular automata** are mathematical models of distributed dynamical processes characterized by a discrete space and time evolution; they are useful for studying complex systems and nonlinear phenomena such as chaos and pattern formation. A good reference is Wolfram's book. Catastrophic theory is another mathematical approach. Mandelbrot introduced us to fractal geometry that models recurrence of similar patterns on different spatial and temporal scales. Such self-similar structures *exhibit power law dependencies* (one quantity varies as a power of another). 

Homeostasis: Physiological manifestations, such as fight or flight, reflect the efforts of the body too maintain internal equilibrium. This ultimate gauge its proper functioning, involves maintenance of constant rates of concentration in the blood of certain molecules and iors essential to the lifr and maintenance at specified levels of physical parameters (eg. temperature and pH) despite environental changes. Ecological, biological, and social systems are homeostatic. *They oppose change using all the means at their disposal*. Complex systems must possess homeostasis to maintain their stability and survive. Their behavior is unpredictable, counterintuitive. For an ant colony mere survival is not enough, but must find ways to adapt to modifications of the environment and evolve. If not, external forces will disorganize and destroy it. Finding ways to adapt is challenging. Thermodynamics may provide some answers.

Application of the First law of thermodynamics to living systems: A single muscle is ~25% efficient in converting food energy to work. Leg muscles are the largest; thus cycling and climbing stairs are relatively efficient (20%).. Shoveling uses mostly arm and shoulder muscles and its efficiency is much less at 3%. The body is efficient at a very low value as many organs consume energy and produce no work. Energy consumption varies directly with oxygen consumption, since the digestive process is equivalent to food oxidation. 4/9 kcal of energy is produced per liter of oxygen consumed, independent of the type of food. The digestive system metabolizes food very effectively, with only 5% excreted as feces. The body stores excess food energy by producing fatty tissue. Food is only one type of chemically stored energy. BMR depends on mass for both humans and other warm-blooded animals (linear on a log-log scale) with a scale indicating BMR varies as per m<sup>3/4</sup> (Kleiber's law). 

BMR and Oxyben consumption rates for a 65 Kg average male: 

|  Organ        | Power consumed at Rest     |     Oxygen Consumption in    |     % BMR   |
|-------------  |:--------------------------:|:----------------------------:|:-----------:|
|               |  (kcal/min)  /    (W)      |       (ml/min)               |             |
|Liver & Spleen |    0.33      /     23      |          67                  |      27     |
|Brain          |    0.23      /     16      |          47                  |      19     |
|Skeltal Muscle |    0.22      /     15      |          45                  |      18     |
|Kidney         |    0.13      /      9      |          26                  |      10     |
|Heart          |    0.08      /      6      |          17                  |       7     |
|Other          |    0.23      /     16      |          48                  |      19     |
|**TOTAL**      |    1.22      /     85      |          250                 |      100    |

Reexpressing the first law of thermodynamics,  ∆Q = ∆U - ∆W, where ∆Q is the amount of heat lost by a system to a decrease in internal energy ∆U of the system and to work done by the system ∆W. For a mammal, ∆U is the metabolic energy released from oxidizing carbs; ∆W is the work done by muscles and other organs. If ∆W = 0, then ∆Q = I * ∆t = ∆U, where I is the heat flux and ∆t is the time it took to lose that heat. I = ∆U/∆t = BMR. At rest = m * M<sup>0.75</sup>, where m = 3.4 in SI units for mammals. From Newton's law of cooling, 
Ah<sub>c</sub> (T(organism) - T(environment)) = BMR at rest. Rearranging, T(organism) = T(env) + (1/Ah<sub>c</sub>)* m * M<sup>0.75</sup>. Here h<sub>c</sub> is the coeff of heat transfer and A is the body surface area.

The authors then discuss thermal control strategies for different animals.  First a walrus: its inner temp has to be 37 degree C, while the outside is close to freezing. Thus, the second term must compensate to reach that internal temperature. Say it is a sphere of rad 1m. Mass M is about 1000 Kg; assume the fat thickness as L. Then the second term is: (L/A * k<sub>fat</sub>) * m * M<sup>0.75</sup>. This yields L = 8 cm, the observed thickness of the fat layer of a walrus. Is size an advantage for aquatic mammals? Evaluate the ratio: M<sup>0.75</sup>/A = L<sup>0.25</sup>, since M varies as L<sup>3</sup>, while A varies as L<sup>2</sup>. Thus a larger aquatic animal does not need a thicker fat coat. Exercise can increase its metabolic rate and hence internal temperature. To increase the impact of the second term, A must be as small as possible, thus the spherical shape. 

Now consider mammals in hot climates. The second term must be reduced to keep internal body temp if the extl temp is close to intl temp of 37 degree C. To minimize the second factor, A must be as large as possible. eg. large ears of elephans and long necks of giraffe. And less fat. 
